gh-139313: Improve docs on XML security (#139460)
python/cpython: Doc/library/xml.rst

An attacker can abuse XML features to carry out denial of service attacks,
access local files, generate network connections to other machines, or
circumvent firewalls when attacker-controlled XML is being parsed,
in Python or elsewhere.

> The builtin XML parsers of Python rely on library `libexpat`_, commonly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The built-in XML parsers of Python rely on the library `libexpat`_, commonly
```

Sorry, very pedantic grammar fix.

Author: @hedsnz makes sense, thanks, fixed with the next push…

called Expat, for parsing XML.

By default, Expat itself does not access local files or create network
connections.

Expat versions lower than 2.7.2 may be vulnerable to "billion laughs",

> "quadratic blowup" and "large tokens" or disproportional use of dynamic memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expat versions lower than 2.7.2 may be vulnerable to the "billion laughs",
"quadratic blowup" and "large tokens" vulnerabilities, or to the disproportional use of dynamic memory.
```

Another very minor readability thing. I'm assuming in this suggestion that "large tokens" is a different thing than "disproportional use of dynamic memory". If that's not the case, then:

> Expat versions lower than 2.7.2 may be vulnerable to the "billion laughs", "quadratic blowup"
and "large tokens" (disproportional use of dynamic memory) vulnerabilities.

Author: @hedsnz it's two different things, you assumed right:

- large tokens is CVE-2023-52425 (and does not involve dynamic memory in any particular way)
- disproportional use of dynamic memory is CVE-2025-59375

I'm not adding the "the" in "the disproportional use" because the term is meant in a general sense but applying everything else. Thanks!

Python bundles a copy of Expat, and whether the bundled or a system-wide Expat

> is being used by Python, depends on how the Python interpreter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Python bundles a copy of Expat, and whether Python uses the bundled or a system-wide
version of Expat depends on how the Python interpreter
```

Author: @hedsnz I will omit the "version of" because these two are not versions to me, but apply all else. Thanks!

> :doc:`has been configured <../using/configure>` in your environment.

Reviewer 2: You may be more explicit and link to the https://docs.python.org/dev/using/configure.html#cmdoption-with-system-expat option.

Author: @vstinner I'd be happy to but the syntax I tried broke the build. Any ideas what the right syntax is or where to find the the right part of the docs to teach me?

Reviewer 2: To create a link to the option, you should be able to write just:

```
:option:`--with-system-expat`
```

Author: @vstinner very interesting hint — thank you!

How is `:option:` sometimes pointing to to `cmdline.html` (e.g. in `Doc/c-api/init_config.rst`) and sometimes to `configure.html` (e.g. in `Doc/c-api/intro.rst`)? 

The idea was to not go into low-level details in these docs so rather than low-level…
```
:option:`--with-system-expat`
```
…I will try to adapt pattern…
```
:option:`configure --with-trace-refs option <--with-trace-refs>`
```
…to…
```
:option:`has been configured <--with-system-expat>`
```
…and see if that works. Push upcoming…

Author: @vstinner update: seems to have worked: https://cpython-previews--139460.org.readthedocs.build/en/139460/library/xml.html#xml-vulnerabilities

An attacker can abuse XML features to carry out denial of service attacks,
access local files, generate network connections to other machines, or
circumvent firewalls when attacker-controlled XML is being parsed,

> in Python or elsewhere.

Reviewer 2: That's the Python documentation, I suggest to focus on Python:

```suggestion
in Python.
```

Author: @vstinner that part of the description is more about XML and Expat than Python though. By dropping the "or elsewhere" it can be read as being about problems that would be *specific* to Python. My vote against this change, unless you insist.

Reviewer 2: Ok, leave it in this case.

Author: @vstinner thank you! :+1:
